#+TITLE: 8 Pointers for College Newbies
#+DATE: <2020-01-03 Fri>

College can be an intimidating pathway for most people. In this post,
I'll be providing pointers on how to start off your semester or quarter
in the best way. These are suggestions that has helped me immensely in
my academic pursuits and I strongly believe that they will help you in
yours.

** Plan your schedule
While figuring out what college courses to take, you must keep in mind
how these classes can affect your time and your energy. One of the first
mistakes that most people make is taking classes that are too much or
too difficult for them to take, especially when some have jobs to
support their education and lifestyle. If you're not sure how to plan
your schedule or decide which classes to take, that's what counselors
are for.

** Get to know your counselor
Don't be afraid to meet up with your counselor several times throughout
the college year. Not only are counselors paid to help you plan your
classes and your academic goals, they are there for you as a emotional
resource, to listen and may provide you with personal advice.

** Preview your schedule
When finalizing your schedule, it helps to know where these classes are.
If possible, go to your college before the semester starts and actually
figure out the routes you need to take from class to class. This will
help visualize how your entire semester will go, and whether you have
enough time in between to rest or catch up on schoolwork.

** Grab a classmate
While taking a class, there's a chance that you might miss a day or two
due to sickness or unknown events. While you may be excused, it can be
difficult to figure out what happened that day in class. On the first
day of the class, make sure to connect with at least one classmate and
ask for their contact information. That way, you will be able to ask for
notes or important information that you might have missed that day. Of
course, you could also return the favor.

** Talk with your professor
Many people would be intimidated to talk with their professor,
especially if they happen not to be doing well in class. Don't be afraid
to ask for help during their office hours, especially for upcoming
quizzes and exams. Not only would you have an actual relationship with
your professor, a bond could be developed that could benefit both you
and the professor. You might even be able to ask for a letter of
recommendation toward the end of the semester.

** Raise your hand
Participate! As most students refuse to speak out their confusion in
fear of looking stupid in the eyes of their peers, there are others that
have just the same questions on their mind. It's a worrying conundrum
that can only be resolved if either the teacher calls a student out or
someone is brave enough to ask questions. Again, I urge you to
participate! Not only will your peers benefit from your questions, the
professor will be able to gauge how the class is doing as a whole.

** Take good notes
There is not much I can say objectively about taking good notes. Some
students do not even take notes and it works best for them. Just keep in
mind of your own strengths and weaknesses, and figure out what kind of
note taking is best for you. Some take notes during class while the
professor is lecturing while others wait until after class to write down
their impressions. While taking no notes during class may seem
surprising, it frees up your mind to concentrate on the material the
professor is giving you and you'll be able to question and participate
with the professor more often. Such interaction may help you recall the
material more quickly than taking notes in class. As I've said before,
the best way to take notes relies in how you perceive and absorb
information in your own way.

** Form study groups
After class, it is usually best to review the material. One way to help
enhance your learning is to form a study group. If you were able to grab
a classmate, keep going! Talk to other classmates and ask them if they
would like to be part of a study group. There is likely to be more
interested students than you would think. Try to find a time and a place
to agree on, mostly preferably at study rooms in a library or a coffee
shop. Talking and sharing with others your thoughts and your notes will
help enhance your learning overall. As an added benefit, you'll have a
much more enjoyable experience at your college.

** Conclusion
College can be one of the most rewarding and amazing experiences you
could have in life. Don't be afraid to explore your strengths and
weaknesses. By following these tips, you may find friendship and
connections in the most unlikely places. As always, stay true to
yourself.
